
Automatic Pilot
===============

 {.body .conbody}
Most [B-25]{.keyword} aircraft have A-3 or A-3A autopilots which operate
on a pneumatic-hydraulic principle. They fly the airplane automatically
in straight and level flight and make the necessary corrections for
holding a given course or altitude.

![Automatic
pilot](../images/auto_pilot.png){#automatic_pilot__image_r4j_1km_cgb
.image}

They do this by utilizing the indications of the directional gyro
control unit and the bank and climb control unit.

The difference between the human pilot and the autopilot is that the
autopilot acts instantaneously and with a precision not possible for a
human pilot.

The reaction time of the human pilot is always governed by such factors
as fatigue, muscle coordination and a failure to detect errors the
instant they occur.

The autopilot however, corrects instantaneously for any deviation from
the set course. Properly adjusted, it will neither overcontrol nor
undercontrol the airplane, but will keep it flying straight and level
with all controls operating in complete coordination.

 {#automatic_pilot__sect_HowAutoPilotWorks .section .section}
How It Works {#how-it-works .title .sectiontitle}
------------

The principle of operation of the autopilot is the same for correcting
all off-movements.

Suppose that an airplane is in straight and level flight and that the
autopilot is operating. So long as the airplane continues to fly
straight and level, equal amounts of air pass through two channels
around the spinning wheel of the bank-and-climb control unit.

\
![Auto pilot, level flight
diagram](../images/auto_pilot_level_flight_diag.png){#automatic_pilot__image_s2d_2km_cgb
.image width="288"}\

Suddenly rough air causes one wing to drop. Immediately, a ring around
the spinning wheel shuts air off from one of the channels. This
unequalizes the air in the relay chamber of the bank-and-climb control
unit, depressing the diaphragm which divides the relay chamber. When the
diaphragm is depressed, a balanced oil valve opens and permits oil to
flow to the hydraulic control cylinders. The pressure of this oil
actuates a piston connected to the aileron cables. The piston moves
forward or backward until the plane is righted.

The flow of oil from the hydraulic cylinder is regulated by speed
adjustment knobs on the automatic pilot assembly. You can vary the speed
of correction by increasing or decreasing the volume of flow. You can
also overpower the automatic pilot by applying increased pressure to the
controls. Spring-loaded relief valves in the hydraulic cylinders permit
this overpowering action if it becomes desirable.

An automatic follow-up mechanism is part of the automatic pilot. It
eases the pressure on the controls as the airplane starts to recover.
When the plane is again in level flight, the action of the follow-up
mechanism equalizes the pressure in the air relay chamber and cuts off
the oil supply.

You can disengage the automatic pilot quickly if necessary, by a control
on the pilot\'s pedestal. This control is connected by a cable to a
bypass valve in the hydraulic cylinder.

\
![Auto pilot, rough air
diagram](../images/auto_pilot_rough_air_diag.png){#automatic_pilot__image_pjc_gkm_cgb
.image width="288"}\





**Parent topic:** [Equipment and
Instruments](../mdita/equipment_and_instruments.md "This section provides a survey of the key systems, equipment and instrumentation of the B-25 airplane.")



