
Defrosting Systems
==================

 {.body .conbody}
Where the desfrosting systems are located across the [B-25]{.keyword}.

The pilot\'s windshield section, bombardier\'s bombsight window,
bombsight, and the navigator\'s astrodome can be defrosted by warm air
from the airplane heating system. The bomb bay window, the astrodome,
and the pilot\'s windshield receive heat whenever the heating system is
on.

The bombsight warm air supply is controlled by a lever on the defrosting
tube located on the left side of the bombardier\'s compartment.

There is a door for cleaning the bombsight window. When not in use, the
bombsight defrosting tube can be stowed in clips along the left side of
the bombardier\'s compartment.

When not in use, the end of the astrodome defroster tube can be stored
on the left side of the navigator\'s compartment directly inboard of the
window on the upper longeron. To use it, attach the end of the tube to
the nozzle permanently installed in the astrodome, or place it in the
alternate position by hooking it to the rear of the astrodome.

There is a flexible auxiliary defrosting tube on the floor of the
pilot\'s compartment at the base of the control column. You can remove
the free end from the storage clip and extend it as needed for
defrosting the interior of the top side windows in the pilot\'s
compartment. The push-pull selector control on the lower panel in front
of the copilot directs the flow of air either to the windshield or to
the auxiliary defrosting tube.

Special blowers assist the flow of air to the pilot\'s compartment
defrosting system and to the bombsight window in the bombardier\'s
compartment. Switch controls for the blowers are on the pilot\'s switch
panel and on the bombardier\'s control panel.

This heating and defrosting system is slightly modified and adapted for
the different series of [B-25]{.keyword} planes. There are no provisions
for heating or defrosting the nose of the series G and H planes, and
other slight changes occur in other models. Information on these changes
may be found in the T.O.\'s for these planes.




**Parent topic:** [Cold Weather
Operations](../mdita/cold_weather_operations.md "Cold weather operations bring visions of long arctic nights, glaciers, Eskimos, and stories you have heard of the Far North.")



 {.linklist .relinfo .relconcepts}
**Related concepts**\

<div>

[Weight and
Balance](../mdita/WeightAndBalance.md "The day when a pilot flew by guesswork is past. One by one the decisions that were made by intuition, hunches, and guesswork have been taken over by an orderly system based on knowledge and understanding. Invariably this has resulted in greater safety and operating efficiency.")

</div>

<div>

[Principles of weight and
balance](../mdita/PrinciplesOfWeightAndBalance.md "Understanding proper balance and the center of gravity of a B-25, and how to correctly determine the total weight and its distribution on board the aircraft.")

</div>

<div>

[Fuel](../mdita/fuel.md "Information on the fuel required for the B-25, and how to determine the maximum flight range for the aircraft under different conditions.")

</div>

<div>

[Grade 91
Fuel](../mdita/grade_91_fuel.md "With our entry into World War II, and our operations on fighting fronts the length and breadth of the world, it became apparent that we could not produce high-octane fuels quickly enough to meet the demand.")

</div>

<div>

[Some Typical
Missions](../mdita/some_typical_missions.md "The types of practice missions you can expect when learning the B-25.")

</div>

<div>

[Gunnery
Missions](../mdita/gunnery_missions.md "In this and all ensuing gunnery missions when both ground and water targets are used, extreme care must be exercised to see that the field of fire is clear of other planes.")

</div>


 {.linklist .relinfo .reltasks}
**Related tasks**\

<div>

[Formation
Bombing](../mdita/formation_bombing.md "This is a day, 6-ship formation bombing mission.")

</div>

<div>

[Chemical spray
mission](../mdita/ChemicalSprayMission.md "Background and expectations on the chemical spray missions.")

</div>

<div>

[Day Navigation, Photo-Reconnaissance, and Instrument Let-Down
Mission](../mdita/day_navigation_photo_reconnaissance_and_instrument_let_down_mission.md "How this mission works and what's expected of every crew member.")

</div>


 {.linklist .relinfo .relref}
**Related reference**\

<div>

[Power Control Chart for Grade 91
Fuel](../mdita/power_control_chart_for_grade_91_fuel.md "What you can expect when flying the B-25 using Grade 91 fuel.")

</div>

<div>

[Maximum Range Chart For B-25 C, D, & G
Aircraft](../mdita/maximum_range_chart_for_b_25_c_d_and_g_aircraft.md "Information on the maximum range for the C, D, and G models of the B-25.")

</div>

<div>

[Maximum Range Chart for B-25 H & J
Aircraft](../mdita/maximum_range_chart_for_b_25_h_and_j_aircraft.md "Information on the maximum range for the H and J models of the B-25.")

</div>


