
Electrical System
=================

 {.body .conbody}
The electrical power which operates and controls the various units of
the [B-25]{.keyword} is supplied by 2 generators, supplemented by 2
storage batteries connected in parallel.

The batteries, behind the firewall in each nacelle, furnish 24-volt
current to the electrical equipment when the generators are not
operating.

![Storage
battery](../images/storage_battery.png){#electrical_system__image_cp2_y3m_cgb
.image width="384"}

Battery-disconnect solenoids connect the batteries to the electrical
system. (On late series aircraft B-4 relays replace these solenoids.)
The solenoids are in the power panel junction box and are controlled by
switches on the pilot\'s switch panel. Both are \"ON\" for normal
operation.

There is an outlet in the right nacelle for the use of external power.
(All electrical switches must be \"OFF\" before applying external
power.)

There is a 30-volt, 200-ampere, blast-cooled generator on the accessory
section below the starter of each engine. They are geared to the engine
drive shafts at a 1.38:1 ratio.

The generators recharge the batteries and furnish all necessary
electrical power. The voltage output of the generators is kept at 28 to
28.5 volts by 2 voltage regulators in the navigator\'s junction box.

Two switches on the navigator\'s switch panel control the generators.

Reverse-current relays in the power panel junction box prevent a reverse
flow of current, avoiding loss of battery charge when generator output
is low.

Instruments for checking generator output arc on the navigator\'s switch
panel.

Inverters change direct current to alternating current for certain
electrical units. These units are: radio compass, marker beacon, auto-
syn instruments, remote indicating compass, magnetic compass light,
drift meter, bomb indicating lights, A-8 fluorescent lights, and heated
clothing.

The inverter is a combination motor-generator. The 24-volt current
drives the motor, which in turn drives the generator and produces
26-volt and 110-volt alternating current.

There is a combination inertia and direct-cranking starter on each
engine. The motor is a part of the inertia system developing 22,000 rpm.
This is reduced to 90 rpm for cranking the engine.

The current to the starter passes through the starter solenoid in the
power panel junction box. This solenoid is operated by the energizing
switch on the pilot\'s pedestal. After the inertia is built up, 2
jaws--- one on the starter and one on the end of the engine crankshaft
--- transfer it to the engine. This action is accomplished by the
meshing solenoid in the starter operated by the meshing switch on the
pilot\'s pedestal.

These switches, used for both engines, are 3-position, spring-loaded
switches.

Various circuits, switches, and fuses complete the system.

On late-model airplanes, circuit breakers replace the fuses in the
electric system.




**Parent topic:** [Equipment and
Instruments](../mdita/equipment_and_instruments.md "This section provides a survey of the key systems, equipment and instrumentation of the B-25 airplane.")



