<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_old_nnd_1gb">
    <title>Duties and Responsibilites of the Airplane Commander</title>
    <shortdesc>The commander of the B-25 must be more than a pilot.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>The commander of the B-25 must be more than a pilot. As his title implies, he must be a
            leader of men&#8212; a leader in a special sense. He must not train his crew as
            automatons, but as a team which will use initiative and perform its tasks to one end
            only . . . the success of the mission. </p>
        <p>You are the leader. The successful coordination of the work involved in getting your
            plane to its objective and back to its base depends a great deal on the way in which you
            lead. </p>
        <p>When you are thoroughly familiar with the jobs the members of your crew are doing, you've
            won half the battle of being the commander of your airplane. </p>
        <p>The second half of the battle consists in knowing your men as individuals as well as
            members of the crew. Do you know where your tail gunner was born? Is your crew chief
            married? What work was your navigator doing before he got in the Army? How does your
            bombardier like his job on the B-25? </p>
        <p>Naturally, you don't ask these questions of your crew as if you were a desk sergeant at
            the night court. If you're going about things the right way, you may never have to ask.
            Your men will volunteer the information. Men always talk about themselves when they're
            fairly sure their listener is really interested. </p>
        <p>They'll know whether you're interested if you look out for their comfort on flights and
            between flights. If you're away from base overnight, you may find it necessary to
            finance one crew member or another. Be sure that every crew member is properly fed,
            quartered, and clothed. The manner in which you take care of their needs will make or
            mar your reputation with your crew. </p>
        <p>You need a lot of tact in handling these things. Your best rule of thumb for getting to
            know and take care of your crew should go something like this: 'Is my interest in the
            crew getting the best out of them for the teamwork I need to fly my plane?'' But be sure
            you don't overdo it. Your tail gunner isn't going to be too happy if you tell him that
            his crap-shooting is blistering his trigger finger. But you're not overdoing it if you
            pull a plate of gas-forming food out from under his hungry eyes just before a
            high-altitude mission. </p>
        <section>
            <title>Crew Discipline</title>
            <p>Discipline in an air crew means that you are commanding respect and getting your
                orders obeyed. It also means that a lot of the time you're not finding it necessary
                to give orders at all. Your crew members are performing their duties without having
                to be told. </p>
            <p>A good way to develop the jitters about your plane and your crew is by keeping them
                at a distance, talking to them pompously, and by showing favoritism or uncertainty
                in your decisions. </p>
            <p>[image: In a little while you'll find yourself working on one side of a 10-foot wall
                while your crew works on the other.] </p>
            <p>On the other hand, you won't get discipline by dropping all distinctions between
                commander and crew and letting the waist gunner call you Joe. </p>
            <p>Somewhere between these two methods there is a happy medium which will insure that
                any order you give will bring instant obedience and maintain respect and mutual
                confidence. </p>
            <p>You can be friendly without becoming familiar, understanding without becoming a
                father-confessor, and firm without emulating Simon Legree. Give direct orders only
                when there is a need for orders. Once you issue an order, see that it is always
                obeyed. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Ready for Action</title>
            <p>Are your guns working? The only way you can be sure is to know how competent and
                reliable your gunners are. It is disastrous to get caught by a swarm of enemy
                fighters and find that your guns won't function. </p>
            <p>What about your navigator? Does he know his job well enough to get you over that
                pinpoint target a thousand miles from any visible fix? </p>
            <p>Is your bombardier sure that his equipment is in perfect condition? Has he remembered
                to warm up his bombsight to prevent fogging at the critical moment? </p>
            <p>You can't know the precise answers to all the questions involved in having your plane
                ready for action- but you can know most of the important questions. Learn enough
                about every man’s job so that you can ask the right questions, and you'll find that
                your crew will be there with the right answers at the right time.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
