<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_gfv_5kd_1gb">
    <title>History of the Mitchell Bomber</title>
    <shortdesc>Welcome to the Mitchell bomber!</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>You are going to fly a champ with a long line of firsts to her credit: </p>
        <ul>
            <li>First to see action on every fighting front.</li>
            <li>First Army airplane to sink an enemy sub.</li>
            <li>First medium bomber to fly from a carrier deck.</li>
            <li>First warplane to pack a 75-mm. cannon.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>It all started when the Army asked for designs of a medium bomber to be submitted. That
            was on 25 January 1939. Forty days later the B-25 was born! Daughter of a slide rule,
            with neither windtunnel tests nor prototypes to study, the performance of the B-25 was a
            series of figures on an engineer's drawing board. </p>
        <p>Yet, 19 days after Hitler marched into Poland, in September, 1939, the Army awarded the
            North American Aviation Company a contract for 148 Mitchell bombers, one of the largest
            orders written up to that time.</p>
        <p>In less than 2 months following a number of modifications, the mock-up was approved.
            Exhaustive tests by Army engineers followed, and in August, 1940, the first B-25 was
            test-flown and its performance found to be better than the claims its designers had made
            for it.</p>
        <p>Since that time, hundreds of changes in design have been made, but the general appear-
            ance of all models of the B-25 has not changed.</p>
        <p>Designed to carry a bomb load of 3500 lb. and a crew of five, it has operated efficiently
            with heavier bomb loads and a crew of 6. Early in the war, when it was engaged in
            emergency evacuation work, the B-25 carried 26 men and their baggage a distance of 700
            miles. On one occasion it carried 32 men and their baggage with auxiliary and main fuel
            cells full.</p>
        <p>Red-lined at 340 mph, cruising easily at 200 mph, the Mitchell, when emergencies have
            arisen, has exceeded 340 mph, with no disastrous effects.</p>
        <p>Its low landing speed has been a boon to flyers who have had to operate from jungle
            strips and airfields blasted from mountain sides.</p>
        <p>Combat experience led to changes in design and armament &#8212; more firepower, spare
            fuel tanks, power-driven turrets, and larger escape hatches, which were added to meet
            the need for quick exit from a damaged plane. </p>
        <p>In April, 1942, the Mitchell made history. Under the leadership of Brigadier General
            Ralph RoycG and Colonel John Davies, 13 B-25's set out from an unidentified base for the
            island of Mindanao, 2000 miles away. On this, the longest bombing expedition in the
            history of aerial warfare, the planes flew 2000 miles to a secret base where a store of
            gasoline was hid- den. For 2 days they hit the Japs who were advancing on Bataan, then
            headed for home without loss. </p>
        <p>Less than a week later came the Doolittle raid on Tokyo, with 16 B-25's taking off from
            the deck of the aircraft carrier Hornet. It can now be told that the tail guns in the
            B-25's on that raid were painted broomsticks which Major General Doolittle ordered
            installed after learning that Jap pilots had been ordered to stay out of range of the
            American tail-stingers.</p>
        <p>During the early days of the submarine menace, B-25's were equipped with special wing
            bomb racks, operating successfully in the submarine hunt and again proving their
            versatility and capacity for modification. </p>
        <p>Arctic operation meant new problems in heating and defrosting for the B-25. They were
            overcome. Long over-water hops, with hours of precision instrument flying, brought the
            installation of the automatic pilot, taking the strain oS our flyers. For action against
            the Jap navy, torpedo racks were installed. A multitude of combat problems found the
            B-25 ready for adaptation to meet them, its most recent and spectacular adaptation being
            the installation of the 75-mm. cannon in the B-25 G and B-25 H. </p>
        <p>The use of the B-25 as a low-altitude attack plane led to the removal of the lower
            turret. It was replaced by .50-cal. waist guns and a power-operated tail turret. For
            more effective defense, the upper turret was moved forward.</p>
        <p>Package guns&#8212;two .50-caL mounted on each side of the fuselage and firing
            forward&#8212;plus four .50-cal. installed in the nose above the cannon, have
            transformed the B-25 into a flying machine-gun company, superbly effective for
            strafing.</p>
        <p>The evolution of the Mitchell bomber does not end here. Every day, as experience mounts
            and new tactics develop, the B-25 proves its versatility, ready to run with the hare or
            hunt with the hounds&#8212;an airplane of which its pilots may well say: It does the
            job! </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
