<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="instruments">
    <title>Instruments</title>
    <shortdesc>The following instruments are installed on the B-25. You need no special instructions
        for their operation, as they are basically the same as those on any 2-engine bombardment or
        training airplane.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="12. Dec. 2018"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Flight Instruments</title>
            <p>Pilot Static Instruments</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Airspeed indicator</li>
                <li>Sensitive altimeter</li>
                <li>Rate-of-climb indicator</li>
            </ol>
            <p>A static pressure selector valve on the instrument panel allows the. pilot to use an
                alternate source of static pressure from inside the airplane. Use this when the
                static side of the pitot tube fails because of damage or unusual air conditions,
                such as might be encountered during a thunderstorm.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Vacuum Instruments</title>
            <p>Vacuum pumps, one on each engine, supply the pressure to operate these instruments
                and also the autopilot and the de-icer boots.</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Artificial horizon</li>
                <li>Directional gyro</li>
                <li>Bank-and-turn indicator</li>
            </ol>
            <p>A bank-and-turn needle-valve control on the instrument panel allows adjustment of the
                suction pressures operating the gyro of the bank- and-turn indicator. Flight tests
                on this instrument should give a standard-rate turn (90° in 30 seconds) at one
                needle- width deflection. Adjust the suction pressures until this deflection is
                accurate.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Engine Instruments</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Cylinder-head temperature gage</li>
                <li>Oil temperature gage</li>
                <li>Oil pressure gage</li>
                <li>Fuel pressure gage</li>
                <li>Tachometer</li>
                <li>Manifold pressure gage</li>
                <li>Carburetor air temperature gage</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Miscellaneous Instruments</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Suction gage</li>
                <li>Clock</li>
                <li>Magnetic compass</li>
                <li>Remote compass indicator</li>
                <li>Radio compass indicator</li>
                <li>Hydraulic and brake pressure indicators</li>
                <li>Fuel gages</li>
                <li>Free air temperature gages</li>
                <li>Air pressure gages&#8212; for the emergency air brake system and the hydraulic
                    accumulators.</li>
                <li>Oxygen regulators</li>
                <li>Nosewheel warning lights</li>
                <li>Landing gear and flap position indicator&#8212; this is a resistance-type
                    indicator.</li>
            </ol>
            <p>A contact, linked to the landing gear and flaps, moves across the arc of a resistor
                as you operate the gear and flaps. Thus the resistance varies and is converted to an
                indication of position on the instrument dial.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Autosyn Instruments</title>
            <p>Autosyn instruments are electrically operated. Each instrument consists of two
                motors, one of which is a transmitter and the other an indicator. The transmitter is
                located at the source of mechanical energy, the indicator on the instrument panel.
                The two motors are synchronized so that the speed of the motor at the source governs
                the speed of the motor at the indicator, and gives an accurate reading.</p>
            <p>The most common autosyn installations are:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Fuel pressure</li>
                <li>Oil pressure</li>
                <li>Manifold pressure</li>
                <li>Tachometer</li>
                <li>Remote reading compass</li>
            </ul>
            <p>On late series aircraft, pressure transmitting instruments replace all autosyn
                instruments, except the remote reading compass.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Pressure Transmitting Instruments</title>
            <p>Pressure forces in the pressure transmitting instruments actuate a diaphragm. This
                diaphragm transmits the pressure through a line filled with compass fluid to an
                indicator on the instrument panel, where it is converted to the desired reading.</p>
            <p>The pressure transmitting instruments on the B-25 are fuel pressure and oil
                pressure.</p>
            <p>Aircraft with these instruments have direct reading manifold pressure gages and
                electric tachometers.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
