<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="prohibited_maneuvers_in_the_b_25">
    <title>Prohibited Maneuvers in the <keyword keyref="designator"/></title>
    <shortdesc>The following maneuvers are not prohibited because of the flying characteristics of
        the airplane, but because they impose severe structural stresses on it. The <keyword
            keyref="designator"/> is a bomber, not a pursuit plane.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="21. Dec. 2018"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>prohibited</indexterm>
                <indexterm>prohibited maneuvers</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The prohibited maneuvers in this airplane are:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Loops</li>
            <li>Spins</li>
            <li>Rolls</li>
            <li>Vertical dives</li>
            <li>Immelmanns</li>
            <li>Inverted flight</li>
            <li>Vertical banks</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Those pilots who try to make a pursuit plane out of a bomber succeed only in making a
            wreck of the bomber.</p>
        <p>The maximum safe wingloading on the <keyword keyref="designator"/> when pulling out of a
            dive is 3.67 G's, and then only at normal weight loadings or below. The designed gross
            weight of the plane is 26,620 lb. The maximum possible overload is 35,500 lb. Remember,
            however, that in present-day military operations you seldom fty a mission under normal
            load conditions. Almost all bombardment missions are overload flights.</p>
        <p>The maximum diving speed of the <keyword keyref="designator"/> is 340 mph with normal
            load weights. When the weight is 35,500 lb. the maximum speed is only 281 mph. </p>
        <p>Know your airplane. The total flying time on the plane you are flying may have reduced
            the safety factor the manufacturer built into it. Some small trouble not (ound on the
            periodic inspections may show up in violent maneuvers.</p>
        <p>The pilot who flew the plane the previous day may have abused the airplane, so conquer
            that urge to show off.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
