<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pq4_mn4_bgb">
    <title>Radio Operator</title>
    <shortdesc>It is impossible to learn radio in a day.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>There is a lot of radio equipment in today's B-25's. There is one particular man who is
            supposed to know all there is to know about this equipment. Sometimes he does, but often
            he doesn't. His deficiencies often do not become apparent until the crew is in the
            combat zone when it is too late. Too often pilots and crows lose their lives because the
            radio operator has accepted his responsibility indifferently.</p>
        <p>It is imperative that you check your radio operator's ability to handle his job before
            taking him overseas as part of your crew. To do this you may have to check with the
            various instructors to find out any weakness in the radio operator's training and
            proficiency and to help overcome such weaknesses.</p>
        <p>The radio operator is required to:</p>
        <ol>
            <li>Render position reports every 30 minutes.</li>
            <li>Assist the navigator in taking fixes.</li>
            <li>Keep the liaison and command sets properly tuned and in good operating order.</li>
            <li>Understand from an operational point of view: <ol>
                    <li>Instrument Landing</li>
                    <li>IFF</li>
                    <li>VHF</li>
                </ol></li>
            <li>Maintain a log.</li>
        </ol>
        <p>In addition to being radio operator, the radio man is also a gunner. During combat he
            leaves his watch at the radio and takes up his guns. He often has to learn photography.
            Some of the best pictures taken in the Southwest Pacific were taken by radio
            operators.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
