<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_vvc_sp4_bgb">
    <title>Rules to Be Enforced on Every Flight</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <refbody>
        <section>
            <title>Smoking</title>
            <ol>
                <li>No smoking in airplane at an altitude below 1000 feet.</li>
                <li>No smoking during fuel transfer.</li>
                <li>Never attempt to throw a lighted cigarette from the airplane. Put it out
                    first.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Parachutes</title>
            <ol>
                <li>All persons aboard will wear parachute harness at all times from takeoff to
                    landing.</li>
                <li>Each person aboard will have a parachute on every flight.</li>
                <li>Carry at least one spare parachute in the plane.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Propellers</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Always enter and leave the plane to and from the rear.</li>
                <li>No person will leave the airplane when propellers are turning unless ordered to
                    do so by the airplane commander.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Oxygen Masks</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Oxygen masks will be carried on all flights where altitude may exceed 10,000
                    feet.</li>
                <li>Day: All persons will use oxygen starting at 7000 to 10,000 feet on all day
                    flights where altitude at any time may exceed 12,000 feet.</li>
                <li>Use oxygen for all flights at 8000 ft. or above when the duration of the flight
                    may exceed 4 hours.</li>
                <li>Night: All persons will use oxygen from the ground up on all flights during
                    which altitude may reach 10,000 feet.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Training</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Tell your crew the purpose of each mission and what you expect each to
                    accomplish.</li>
                <li><b>Keep the crew busy throughout the flight.</b> Get position reports from the
                    navigator; send them out through the radio operator. Put the engineer to work on
                    the cruise control and maximum range charts. Require the copilot to keep a
                    record of engine performance. Give them a workout. Encourage them to use their
                    skill. A team is an active outfit. Make the most of every practice mission.</li>
                <li>Practice all emergency procedures as often as possible&#8212; bailout, ditching
                    and fire drill.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Inspections</title>
            <ol>
                <li>Check your airplane with reference to the particular mission you arc
                    undertaking. <b>Check everything.</b></li>
                <li>Check your crew for equipment, preparedness, and understanding of what you
                    expect from them.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title/>
            <ol>
                <li>Assure yourself that all members of the crew are standing by their interphones
                    at all times. <b>Insist on clear, well controlled voices. Speak slowly and
                        clearly.</b></li>
                <li>Require reports by interphone every 15 minutes from all crew members when on
                    oxygen.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
