<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_mss_d3h_fgb">
    <title>Auxiliary Hydraulic Pump and Emergency Hydraulic Selector Valve</title>
    <shortdesc>The auxiliary hydraulic pump is a double-action hand pump for use as a source of
        pressure if the main hydraulic system fails.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>It is between the pilot's and copilot's seats and either man uses it.</p>
        <p>A selector valve, directly behind the hand pump on the floor, distributes the pressure
            from the hand pump.</p>
        <p>The selector valve has three positions, "NORMAL," "BRAKE" and "LATCH" In "NORMAL"
            position the pressure from the hand pump is distributed through the normal hydraulic
            lines. In "BRAKE" position the pressure goes directly to the brake accumulator and
            then to the brakes. In "LATCH" position the pressure goes directly to the landing gear
            down-latch pins.</p>
        <p>Use this auxiliary source of hydraulic pressure to make all normal hydraulic actions when
            the engine driven pumps fail.</p>
        <p>You can use it to aid or replace the engine-driven pumps.</p>
        <note>
            <p>If down-position latchpins of the main landing gear do not engage, turn emergency
                hydraulic selector valve to "LATCH." Operate the hand pump until position indicator
                shows main landing gear latchpins in place.</p>
            <p>Use this procedure regardless of whether you have employed the main or emergency
                hydraulic systems for lowering the landing gear.</p>
            <p>The yellow flags which show up on the position indicator will always warn you if the
                latchpins are not engaged.</p>
        </note>
    </conbody>
</concept>
