<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="carburetor_air_heat">
    <title>Carburetor Air Heat</title>
    <shortdesc>The carburetor air heater on the B-25 is a 2-position gate in the air induction
        system.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="21. Dec. 2018"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Manual controls directly connect this gate to the position handles in the pilot's
            cockpit. It cannot be set in an intermediate position and it is spring loaded to return
            to "<userinput>NORMAL</userinput>" if the controls are shot away.</p>
        <p>Keep controls at ''<userinput>NORMAL</userinput>" setting unless carburetor icing
            conditions are suspected, as a loss of horsepower results with the controls in
                ''<userinput>ICING</userinput>" This effect increases as power is increased.</p>
        <p>Whenever you observe a gradual loss of manifold pressure without a change in throttles or
            attitude, or the engine runs rough without apparent cause move the control to
                "<userinput>ICING</userinput>."</p>
        <p>In this position the air scoop entrance is closed off, and ice free and heated air enters
            the carburetor from behind the cylinders.</p>
        <p>Operation in "<userinput>ICING</userinput>" will not harm the engines. Even in warm
            weather the carburetor air temperature rise is small. The engines lose efficiency,
            however, since fuel vaporization is impeded.</p>
        <p>Takeoffs are made with the controls at ''<userinput>NORMAL</userinput>" to obtain maximum
            power and prevent detonation at high power settings.</p>
        <p>Resistance-type carburetor air thermometers are installed in the intake air stream on
            each carburetor. They are electrically connected to a dual indicator on the right side
            of the instrument panel.</p>
        <p>Keep the air inlet temperature above 15째C during any conditions where you suspect
            carburetor ice.</p>
        <p>A temperature between 15째C and 30째C is desirable. If, with the carburetor air control at
                "<userinput>ICING</userinput>" a temperature of 15째C cannot be maintained, move the
            control to "<userinput>NORMAL</userinput>" to provide air to the carburetor at so low a
            temperature that icing will not occur. If, with the carburetor air control at
                "<userinput>ICING</userinput>," ice that is already formed is not eliminated, use
            the alcohol anti-icing system (if installed).</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
