<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="carburetor_air_filter">
    <title>Carburetor Air Filter</title>
    <shortdesc>The true relationship between the effects of the carburetor air filter and engine
        power output.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="21. Dec. 2018"/>
            <!--keith.schengili-roberts-->
            <revised modified="31. Dec. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>carburetor air filter</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The false impression exists among some pilots and mechanics that the carburetor air
            filter affects airplane performance.</p>
        <p>Installation of a filter is merely equivalent to closing the throttles slightly. This
            means that for all altitudes less than critical, where manifold pressure limits prevent
            full throttle opening, the filter has no effect at all on engine power output or
            airplane performance.</p>
        <p>Manifold pressure gives the best indication of engine power output, and at a given
            pressure the engine develops the same power regardless of whether a filter is installed.
            The only time that removal of the filter benefits performance is when the throttle is
            full open and still more manifold pressure is permissible.</p>
        <p>When the filter is installed, it affects only cold ram air. Heated air does not pass
            through the filter element.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
