<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA General Task//EN" "generalTask.dtd">
<task id="ChemicalSprayMission">
    <title>Chemical spray mission</title>
    <shortdesc>Background and expectations on the chemical spray missions.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>mission</indexterm>
                <indexterm>chemical spray</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <steps>
            <!-- FS = Sulfur Trioxide-Chlorosulfonic Acid -->
            <step>
                <cmd>This is a chemical mission, using MR and FS.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The plane will be equipped for the mission with a bomb bay chemical spray tank
                    containing MR and two chemical wing tanks&#8212;one on each wing&#8212;
                    containing FS.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The MR target for the mission will be the X Target. The FS target will be the Z
                    target.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The MR target is located approximately in the middle of the target area and is
                    marked by an orange cross in its center.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Chemical tanks will be loaded into the plane. Plane will then be flown to the Z
                    target, making an attack with FS, using one wing tank, from an altitude of 100
                    ft normally, with the intention of covering the center of the target with a
                    screen of smoke.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The plane will then fly to X target, making an attack with MR from an altitude
                    of 150 ft. after inspecting the field to see that the target is in place.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The plane will then return to Z target and release the second smoke screen from
                    the remaining FS wing tank.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>All crew members will be equipped with gas masks while in the performance of
                    this mission. Copilot will wear gas mask beginning 30 seconds before release of
                    chemical until ship has been landed and brought to a stop.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>This mission will not be flown when the wind velocity is greater than 20
                    mph.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Magnetic course to X target, 197 degrees; distance 50 miles.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Special attention should be given to direction of wind. Chemicals should be
                    dropped from a flight path perpendicular to the wind.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Mission will be flown at 500 feet above terrain. Towns along route will be
                    avoided.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>The crew will be interrogated upon return to Home Base as to results of the
                    mission.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
