<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_ltq_t3g_fgb">
    <title>Crosswind Takeoff</title>
    <shortdesc>Modern flying, with its heavy airplanes, demands a runway for safe operation. The
        days when you taxied out, lined up parallel to the wind tee, and took off are gone
        forever.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Instead of 360 of airfield available for takeoff, the modem airfield has three
                runways, usually set to take advantage of the six cardinal points of the prevailing
                winds. Using these runways, you encounter cross winds of varying degrees and
                intensities. </p>
            <p>The aids to a crosswind takeoff are the rudders, the throttles, the aileron, and, as
                a last resort, the brakes.</p>
            <p>The technique is:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Make the usual takeoff checks.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Advance the throttles, leading with the upwind throttle. The strength of the
                    wind will determine the amount of lead.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>As the speed increases and the rudders become effective, equalize the
                    throttles.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Leave the ground with the throttles evenly set and use just enough rudder and
                    aileron to make a coordinated turn into the wind, thus counteracting any
                    drift.</cmd>
                <info><note>The plane may skip as the speed increases toward the end of the takeoff
                        roll. This is an indication that it is ready to fly. Help it along to
                        prevent skipping and to keep the consequent side thrust from injuring the
                        landing gear.</note></info>
                <info><b>Common Errors</b>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Failure to recognize the drift.</li>
                        <li>Trying to correct the drift by skidding instead of turning into the
                            wind. This increases the stalling speed and if violent enough it will
                            put the plane back on the ground. The bounce will be made with the drift
                            applying a side thrust to the gear.</li>
                        <li>Juggling the throttles, giving uneven control. Lead the upwind throttle,
                            constantly reducing the lead. As the speed increases the rudder control
                            is great enough to take off cleanly.</li>
                    </ul></info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
