<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="day_navigation_photo_reconnaissance_and_instrument_let_down_mission">
    <title>Day Navigation, Photo-Reconnaissance, and Instrument Let-Down Mission</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>This mission will consist of a controlled ground speed day navigation and
                photo-reconnaissance mission, at the end of which the pilot will orient himself by
                the X Radio Range and simulate a let-down to Home Base. If first attempt is
                unsuccessful, a second orientation and let-down will be accomplished.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <stepsection><b>Conduct of Mission:</b></stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>This mission will be briefed by the Squadron S-2. All crew members will take
                    careful notes as directed by S-2, and will be interrogated upon return as to
                    observation. Oblique and pinpoint photographs will be taken. Target maps are
                    available for the localities directed below and photographs will be taken of
                    each given target.</cmd>
            </step>
            <stepsection><b>Specific Duties of Crew Members</b></stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pilot&#8212; will aid and direct crew in obtaining observations; give careful
                    attention to best photographic procedures; direct photographs be taken as
                    briefed; and communicate on interphone at all times.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Copilot&#8212; will take notes on installation noted by himself and pilots and
                    accomplish all normal copilot duties.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Navigator-Bombardier</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Will navigate by DR Navigation on a V-P chart except within 10 minutes
                            of target area where pinpoint pilotage will be used on a sectional
                            chart.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Act as observer and perform duties as briefed by S-2.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Maintain and submit navigation log, weather observations, and other
                            data to Squadron Navigation Officer.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Radio Operator&#8212; will transmit position reports submitted by
                    Bombardier-Navigator, and practice tracking from all gun positions.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Engineer-Gunner&#8212; will perform all normal duties and also act as
                    observer.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Armorer-Gunner&#8212; will preflight and in- stall photo equipment; take photos
                    as directed by pilot; make observations of ground activity; and man battle
                    station at all times, taking careful observations and reporting to the pilot all
                    aircraft and ground installations sighted.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
