<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="defrosting_systems">
    <title>Defrosting Systems</title>
    <shortdesc>Where the defrosting systems are located across the <keyword keyref="designator"
        />.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>cold weather</indexterm>
                <indexterm>defrosting</indexterm>
                <indexterm>defrosting systems</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The pilot's windshield section, bombardier's bombsight window, bombsight, and the
            navigator's astrodome can be defrosted by warm air from the airplane heating system. The
            bomb bay window, the astrodome, and the pilot's windshield receive heat whenever the
            heating system is on.</p>
        <p>The bombsight warm air supply is controlled by a lever on the defrosting tube located on
            the left side of the bombardier's compartment.</p>
        <p>There is a door for cleaning the bombsight window. When not in use, the bombsight
            defrosting tube can be stowed in clips along the left side of the bombardier's
            compartment.</p>
        <p>When not in use, the end of the astrodome defroster tube can be stored on the left side
            of the navigator's compartment directly inboard of the window on the upper longeron. To
            use it, attach the end of the tube to the nozzle permanently installed in the astrodome,
            or place it in the alternate position by hooking it to the rear of the astrodome.</p>
        <p>There is a flexible auxiliary defrosting tube on the floor of the pilot's compartment at
            the base of the control column. You can remove the free end from the storage clip and
            extend it as needed for defrosting the interior of the top side windows in the pilot's
            compartment. The push-pull selector control on the lower panel in front of the copilot
            directs the flow of air either to the windshield or to the auxiliary defrosting
            tube.</p>
        <p>Special blowers assist the flow of air to the pilot's compartment defrosting system and
            to the bombsight window in the bombardier's compartment. Switch controls for the blowers
            are on the pilot's switch panel and on the bombardier's control panel.</p>
        <p>This heating and defrosting system is slightly modified and adapted for the different
            series of <keyword keyref="designator"/> planes. There are no provisions for heating or
            defrosting the nose of the series G and H planes, and other slight changes occur in
            other models. Information on these changes may be found in the T.O.'s for these
            planes.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
