<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_b3k_pp2_cgb">
    <title>Dual Ignition System</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <conbody>
        <p>The ignition system, except for the induction vibrator coil, is independent of all other
            electrical power sources.</p>
        <p>There are 2 magnetos on each engine. The right magneto furnishes spark to the front plugs
            and the left to the rear plugs in both banks of cylinders.</p>
        <p>Dual ignition provides more efficient combustion, decreasing the possibility of
            detonation. It also acts as a safety factor by providing 2 separate ignition systems on
            each engine.</p>
        <p>Since the magnetos do not furnish sufficient spark until they are turning 75 to 85 rpm,
            it is necessary to provide starting spark from an induction vibrator coil It is in the
            power panel junction box and steps up 24-volt current to 20,000-25,000 volts at a low
            amperage output. To operate it, engage the starter with the meshing switch. High-voltage
            spark is sent to the right magneto, firing the front plugs as they are less likely to
            foul. The induction coil continues to operate until the meshing switch is released.</p>
        <note type="caution">Caution: Never keep the induction vibrator coil in continuous
            operation, as tremendous heat is generated, and the coil will burn out.</note>
        <p>Necessary lines, fuses, and switches complete the ignition system.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
