<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_lng_xjk_fgb">
    <title>Emergency Operation-Air Brakes</title>
    <shortdesc>Use this Air Brake System only in extreme emergencies.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Use it when normal hydraulic system has failed and you cannot develop sufficient
                pressure with your auxiliary hydraulic hand pump.</p>
            <p>When you are sure you must use the air brake system, choose the field with the
                largest runways within range of your airplane. The runway should be at least one
                mile long for a safe landing. Make a short-field landing.</p>
            <p>Dissipate all the speed you can safely lose before using your air brake, but don't
                wait until you are out of runway!</p>
            <p>You cannot use these brakes selectively. Be ready to counteract any uneven braking
                action with the throttles.</p>
            <p>Operation:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pull up sharply on the air brake handle to break the safety wire.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Lower the handle immediately. Lower it by hand, as the handle is spring-loaded
                    and will be pulled back past neutral if it is allowed to snap down.</cmd>
                <info>The air pressure is applied to the brakes at the extreme top of the brake
                    handle's travel, and released at the extreme bottom of the travel. In neutral,
                    the air pressure is locked in the brakes and air bottle.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Apply braking action in a series of quick, sharp applications. If you apply the
                    brakes continuously for two to three seconds most of the pressure will be
                    transferred to the brake drums and the brakes may lock.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To release the brakes, move the brake handle all the way down. It will release
                    pressure in the brakes only at the end of its travel,</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>After you accomplish one complete braking action and the plane stops, there
                    should be a small residue of air still in the emergency air brake bottle. You
                    can use brakes a second time only at a greatly reduced power.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>You must depend only on the original braking actions and should, on coming to a
                    stop, call the tower and have the plane towed in. Any attempt to taxi with the
                    limited braking action available is extremely dangerous.</cmd>
                <info><note type="warning">Placing handle in neutral position must be done by hand;
                        the spring load on the handle will snap it into release position and exhaust
                        the air pressure.<p>Chock wheels before brakes are released.</p>
                        <p>Bleed hydraulic brake system after using the air brake
                    system.</p></note></info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
