<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_mg2_wdh_fgb">
    <title>Engine Failure on Takeoff</title>
    <shortdesc>This is a tricky proposition for any pilot to handle. When the engine fails before
        you gain CSE speed, retract the wheels and land straight ahead. There is far less danger in
        a belly landing than in attempting to go around with too low an airspeed.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>If you are in the air, however, and have CSE speed, you can go around without too
                much difficulty.</p>
            <p>You must know your procedure and your airplane Work quickly, accurately, and
                efficiently. Don't get panicky.</p>
            <p>Don't get featheritis&#8212; be sure the engine is out, not just spitting a
                little.</p>
            <p>Use the same procedure, but notice that the first three parts of it are already
                accomplished.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Airspeed&#8212; You either have CSE speed or you land straight ahead.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Directional Control -This is an instinctive reaction. Use rudder pressure at
                    the first feel of yaw.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Increase power&#8212; Takeoff power has already been applied. It may be
                    necessary to reduce power to maintain control.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce Drag.</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Raise the wheels</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Feather the prop</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Close cowl flaps on dead engine</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Drop weight if necessary</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce Fire Hazard</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Trim.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Trouble Search.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
