<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_wk3_h2g_fgb">
    <title>Formation</title>
    <shortdesc>"You just gotta stay in there," Thus returning combat pilots pass on to you the most
        important thing they learned in the battle zones.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>"You just don't come back from a mission if you straggle from a formation. Even if you
            are hit and hurt badly, if the plane can stay in the air, stay in formation."</p>
        <p>This is not an obsession; it is a lesson so well learned that it is instinct. Combat
            pilots know, as no other men on earth can know, that mutual protection alone makes
            possible the operations over enemy territory today.</p>
        <p>As a trainee pilot it is a lesson you can learn from the experiences of other men.
            Prepare yourself for the job to come by mastering the elements of formation flying.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Why Fly in Formation?</title>
            <p>Bombardment units fly in formation for mariy reasons, and mutual defense is only one
                of them. Other reasons are: </p>
            <ul>
                <li>Concentrate the power of the attack.</li>
                <li>Concentrate the power of the defense.</li>
                <li>Maintain the element of surprise in attack.</li>
                <li>Observation against surprise attack.</li>
                <li>Unity of command.</li>
                <li>Maneuverability for attack and defense.</li>
                <li>Control of navigation.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>The basic formation procedures you have learned remain the same. The difference in
                tactical training is slight; it is primarily in the accuracy of your technique, and
                the limitations of your airplane.</p>
            <p>The B-25 is easy to fly in formation. You need good instruction and plenty of
                practice, however to become competent in the technique.</p>
            <p>Your main problem is learning the difference between handling the B-25 and a light
                training plane. Weight and momentum are your chief concerns.</p>
            <p>The B-25 does not respond instantly to changes in power settings. </p>
            <p>You have more than 26,000 lb. to control, and the momentum of thi5 weight must be
                overcome before the plane responds to changes in power. When applying power, give
                the plane a chance to respond. Don't be a throttle juggler&#8212;it is not
                necessary, and you cannot fly good for- mation by blasting the power on and then
                cutting it off. Tease your plane into its position by small, accurate corrections.
                You can fly accurate, well-controlled formation and seldom need a great change in
                power setting.</p>
            <p>Learn to anticipate. This is the hardest part of formation flying in the B-25. The
                ideal formation is one in which each man so anticipates his power needs that he
                never has to make any but the slightest corrections in his power settings.</p>
            <p>Tactical formation places a high premium on a pilot's ability to move accurately from
                one type of formation to another. You must be able to move quickly from a relatively
                loose route formation to a tight defensive formation. If you are in proper position
                above and well up on the lead plane, you can close accurately and quickly by nosing
                down, thus converting altitude to the speed required.</p>
            <p>You may fly in a formation of hundreds of airplanes, but these huge formations break
                down into the familiar 3-plane combinations. Learn these fundamentals well and you
                will feel at home and be in position in any formation.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Air Discipline</title>
            <p>A formation in the air is no place for a difference of opinion. You are in a
                formation to enable the formation leader to exercise his right of command.</p>
            <p>He is the boss of the formation as a captain is boss of his ship at sea; there is no
                question of his orders and no recourse. Once you have landed, you&#8212; hke a
                sailor&#8212; can take your complaint to a higher authority.</p>
            <p>In the air&#8212; Obey.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Types of Formations</title>
            <p>There are many types of formations; for simplicity, the three basic groupings are
                sufficient to give you the primary elements of all formations.</p>
            <p>These formations are illustrated as squadron formations to allow you to see their
                integration into larger groups.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Takeoff and Landing</title>
            <p>Many variations of takeoff and landing procedures are used in the different Air
                Forces. The fundamentals are the same wherever you go.</p>
            <p>A time interval is set between takeoffs for each plane; on the basis of this time
                interval, the formation leader flies straight out from the end of the runway at a
                predetermined rate of climb and a set airspeed. When the time interval shows that
                his immediate flight is in the air, he starts a constant- rate turn, allowing the
                rear planes to turn inside him and close in to pick up position.</p>
            <p>Each plane takes an alternate side of the runway at takeoff to avoid the prop wash of
                the preceding plane.</p>
            <p>Warning&#8212; Watch wind direction closely to determine where you will encounter the
                heaviest prop wash, and try to fly above or below it at that point.</p>
            <p>Keep your nose inside the nose of the lead plane. You will delay the entire joining
                procedure if you turn with the lead plane instead of inside him.</p>
            <p>To land information you must land accurately at varying distances on the runway. Land
                on the side away from the plane ahead of you, and give the man behind you a little
                room to get down. Don't blast your throttles on the approach. You only create
                unnecessary prop wash. Plan your landing to get in without increasing power,</p>
            <p>Don't be afraid to go around if you mess up a formation landing. Remember, there is a
                man coming in right behind you. If you can't land accurately, go around.</p>
            <p>Watch the plane ahead of you. If you see him make a low, dragging approach, you will
                eat a lot of his prop wash as you land. Try to plan your landing to come in over his
                prop wash, and let down to the runway where his power has been cut, thereby missing
                the worst turbulence.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Leading a Formation</title>
            <p>Leading a formation requires accurate, precise flying and excellent judgment. It is
                similar to instrument flying. A definite planned procedure is the secret of leading
                a formation properly.</p>
            <p>Remember&#8212; your wing men trust you implicitly for leadership and direction.
                Neither you, they, nor anyone else will trust a leader who bounces around like a
                Yo-Yo. Make each maneuver smooth and slow enough so that your poorest wingman can
                follow you without difficulty.</p>
            <p>Make your signals distinct, but not violent. Remember that the size of the formation
                following you governs the arc of turn. If you pour on the coal and turn tight you
                play crack-the- whip with the man on the tail of the formation. Tomorrow he may be
                the guy whose gunners could save your neck if he was in position.</p>
            <p>Fly at reduced power. Your wingmen must have a margin of power available to maintain
                position.</p>
            <p>Follow the instructions given on the ground. Many combat reports show that formation
                leaders have caused casualties by ignoring the planned attack to try a makeshift at
                the last moment.</p>
            <p>Remember the size of your formation. Fly accurately.</p>
            <p>Plan your work well in advance.</p>
            <p>Fly at reduced power&#8212; compact defensive power is more potent than a little
                extra speed.</p>
            <p>Use the best judgment you are able to exercise.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Tips for a Wingman</title>
            <p>Trust your leader. Stay in formation.</p>
            <p>These two simple things will do more than anything else to bring you home safely from
                the toughest missions. If you disagree with the formation leader, wait until you are
                on the ground to say so.</p>
            <p>Watch the lead plane constantly.</p>
            <p>Make power changes smoothly, waiting for the planers reaction.</p>
            <p>Keep your head out of the cockpit. Train your copilot or engineer to make rpm
                adjustments to compensate for your changing throttle settings. Don't change them
                constantly, hut stay out of the detonation range.</p>
            <p>When changing position, keep all other planes in your field of vision. Coordinate the
                controls. You don't have to kick your plane around; fly it through the necessary
                corrections.</p>
            <p>Be ready in advance of takeoff time. Don't be so late that you have no time for a
                good pre-takeoff check of your plane.</p>
            <note type="caution">When operating on Grade 91 fuel, for additional safety, formation
                leaders should reduce manifold pressure 2" Hg. and wingmen should increase rpm
                settings by 100 rpm.</note>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
