<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fcp_dyq_dgb">
    <title>Grade 91 Fuel</title>
    <shortdesc>With our entry into World War II, and our operations on fighting fronts the length
        and breadth of the world, it became apparent that we could not produce high-octane fuels
        quickly enough to meet the demand.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>For this reason, all training and operational flights in the continental United States
            are made on Grade 91 fuel whenever possible.</p>
        <p>The operation of the B-25 on Grade 91 fuel is perfectly safe. With a thorough knowledge
            of its operating limits you will have no trouble at all.</p>
        <section>
            <title>What Is an Octane Rating?</title>
            <p>To properly understand the evaluation of fuels it is necessary to review some basic
                facts, Let's start with some definitions:</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Pre-ignition</title>
            <p>Pre-ignition is a condition of premature firing. The fuel charge in the cylinder head
                is ignited by a hot carbon deposit or other means before time for the electrical
                firing to occur.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Normal Combustion</title>
            <p>Normal combustion is the burning of the fuel charge in the cylinder head as a
                slow-burning wave, creating power not as an explosion, but as an expansion of the
                gases.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Detonation</title>
            <p>Detonation, as the name implies, is an explosion in the cylinder head. The normal
                burning wave as it travels across the cylinder head subjects the unburned portion of
                the fuel charge to tremendous temperatures and pressures. If these forces are great
                enough the remaining fuel charge explodes before it can burn, and the shock waves
                from this explosion are great enough to blow the cylinder head off the engine.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Octane Rating</title>
            <p>Octane rating of a fuel is a mathematical grade assigned to a fuel in direct
                proportion to its ability to withstand pre-ignition and detonation.</p>
            <p>Two reference fuels were chosen, iso-octane and normal heptane. Run in a test engine,
                these fuels respond identically under identical conditions.</p>
            <p>To rate a new fuel it is compared to these reference fuels. If it matches the
                anti-knock ability of iso-octane it is rated as Grade 100 fuel. If its performance
                is less, normal heptane is added to the iso-octane. Thus, if a fuel matches in
                performance a mixture of 87% iso-octane and 13% normal heptane it is rated as Grade
                87 fuel.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>How Does this Affect the B-25?</title>
            <p>You control the initial pressure that is allowed to enter the cylinders of the
                engines. This pressure after entering the cylinders is compressed and fired at a
                predetermined ratio.</p>
            <p>You exercise a control over the temperature at which the engines run. If you allow
                great pressures to enter the engine, or allow the engine to operate at excessive
                temperatures, you can be sure of disastrous consequences.</p>
            <p>The pressure entering the engine is determined by a relation of manifold pressure and
                rpm. Temperature is controlled by allowing the engine to get proper cooling.</p>
            <p>Learn the power limits you can use with different grade fuels at different
                altitudes.</p>
            <p>The accompanying power control chart shows maximum limits, minimum limits, and the
                desirable range to increase the life and efficiency of the engines.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
