<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_tlg_fg4_dgb">
    <title>Landing Checklist</title>
    <shortdesc>On any landing, enter traffic as instructed by field regulations or as instructed by
        the control tower.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Adjust the power settings to bring the speed below 170 mph but not below 150 mph.
                Prior to landing, make this landing check:</p>
            <note type="important">Do not allow the speed to drop below 150 mph until you are on the
                approach.</note>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Trailing antenna "RETRACTED".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Wing de-icers "OFF".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Heaters "OFF".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Autopilot "OFF".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Fuel pressure.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Fuel levels.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Booster pumps "ON".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Transfer pumps "OFF".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Mixture "FULL RICH".</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Carburetor heat "NORMAL" except in severe icing conditions.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Propellers 2400 rpm&#8212; This permits the use of maximum climbing power in
                    the event of a go-around. (See power control charts.)</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Landing gear "DOWN"&#8212;locked and safetied, visually and orally
                    checked.</cmd>
                <info>You can check the main gear visually and the nose gear on the selsyn
                    indicator, and, if the prop hub is polished, you can check it by its reflection
                    in the hub. There is a warning horn in some aircraft and a warning light in
                    later models. This warning system operates when the throttles are
                    retarded.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Brake and hydraulic pressure.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><option>Optional with local regulations, you may use 15° of flaps on the
                        downwind leg to improve visibility and to improve handling characteristics
                        at low speeds.</option></cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
