<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_k4p_vkk_fgb">
    <title>Miscellaneous Emergency Equipment</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <refbody>
        <section>
            <title>Alarm Bells</title>
            <p>The alarm bells are located at all crew stations. A switch on the lower left section
                of the pilot's switch panel controls them.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Life Raft</title>
            <p>A life raft equipped with a CO<sub>2</sub> cylinder for instantaneous inflation is
                stowed in the upper forward left corner of the radio compartment. For proper use,
                see ditching.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Life Preservers</title>
            <p>The back cushions on the pilot's and copilot's seats are filled with kapok and will
                serve as life preservers.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Emergency Fuel Pump</title>
            <p>In late-series airplanes there is an emergency fuel transfer hand pump on the floor
                of the navigator's compartment. If the electric fuel system fails, you can transfer
                fuel from the bomb bay tanks to the wing tanks with this pump.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Pyrotechnic Signal Pistol</title>
            <p>On later planes, an M-8 type pyrotechnic pistol is stowed in a canvas holster in the
                navigator's compartment as loose equipment.</p>
            <note type="warning">Don't load this pistol except when it has been placed in the mount
                provided in the upper left corner of the navigator's compartment.</note>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Radio Demolition Switch</title>
            <p>On later airplanes, a switch controlling the charge for demolishing the
                identification radio in an emergency is on the right instrument sub- panel. Depress
                both buttons simultaneously to set off the charge.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Hand Ax</title>
            <p>There is a hand ax on the right side of the fuselage in the radio operator's
                compartment.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>First-Aid Kits</title>
            <p>Two first-aid kits are provided, one on the left side of the navigator's compartment,
                the other on the right side of the radio compartment. The number of kits is often
                increased when the ship engages in tactical operation.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Fire Extinguishers</title>
            <p>Carbon dioxide fire extinguishers are at the right side of the navigator's
                compartment and at the right side of the radio operator's compartment.</p>
            <p>There is an engine fire extinguisher system for both engines. It is controllable from
                the copilot's station. A safety fuse for indicating a premature discharge is on the
                right side of the fuselage above the nosewheel.</p>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
