<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="models_and_changes">
    <title>Models and Changes</title>
    <shortdesc>Combat problems in several theaters of war found the A, B, C, and D models of the
            <keyword keyref="designator"/> unsuited for certain tactical operations. A series of
        modifications were necessary to overcome these problems.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>aircraft models</indexterm>
                <indexterm>B-25 differences</indexterm>
                <indexterm>B-25 models</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The <keyword keyref="designator"/> was originally designed for medium-altitude bombing,
            but combat theaters found it maneuverable and fast, making it suitable for low-altitude
            bombing and strafing missions. Additional firepower, armor plating, and re-arrangement
            of equipment were necessary to equip the <keyword keyref="designator"/> for this type
            mission.</p>
        <p>The <keyword keyref="designator"/>G, basically a modified C or D, has a 75-mm. cannon and
            additional forward-firing <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_plural/caliber_generic_plural"/>. The <keyword keyref="designator"/>G carries no
            bombardier; therefore the pilot operates bombing mechanisms and all forward-firing guns.
            Later models of the <keyword keyref="designator"/>G have additional firepower. Waist
            guns and a tail stinger, with more armor plating for the crew, make the <keyword
                keyref="designator"/>G a 4-fisted menace to enemy shipping and ground
            installation.</p>
        <p>The <keyword keyref="designator"/>H, which followed the <keyword keyref="designator"/>G,
            underwent several changes to make it an even more formidable weapon. With the 75-mm.
            cannon still part of the equipment, four .50-cal. forward-firing guns were installed in
            the nose, and four .50-cal. blister guns, two on each side of the fuselage, were
            added.</p>
        <p>With no bombardier aboard, the pilot does all the bombing and fires all forward-firing
            guns. The upper turret has been moved from the rear of the plane to the navigator's
            compartment, giving it a more effective arc of fire. Two .50-cal. waist guns, one on
            each side of the fuselage just aft of the bomb bay, are operated by the radio gunner. A
            tail turret provides two more <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_plural/caliber_generic_plural"/>. The <keyword keyref="designator"/>H,
            primarily used for low-altitude attack, has fourteen .50-cal. machine guns and one
            75-mm. cannon in addition to its complete bombardment equipment.</p>
        <p>The <keyword keyref="designator"/>J is designed to operate as a medium altitude bomber
            and at the same time to provide sufficient firepower for low-altitude strafing missions.
            With no cannon aboard, the nose is reconverted into a bombardier's compartment with the
            addition of two forward-firing <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_plural/caliber_generic_plural"/>. One fixed <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_singular/caliber_generic_singular"/> and one flexible
            <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_singular/caliber_generic_singular"/> in the bombardier's compartment-plus the four forward-firing blister guns
            give the pilot highly effective firepower. The rest of the firepower is identical with
            that of the <keyword keyref="designator"/>H. One excellent feature of the <keyword
                keyref="designator"/>J is the dual bombing controls, giving the pilot or the
            bombardier individual control of all bombing equipment. With twelve <ph conkeyref="caliber_generic_plural/caliber_generic_plural"/>, it is
            one of the deadliest medium bombers in operation.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
