<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_z4h_2y4_dgb">
    <title>Parking</title>
    <shortdesc>When you park your plane after a flight, just remember that the Colonel may make the
        next flight in that particular airplane.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>As you approach the parking ramp stay alert and plan your taxiing so that you can
                pull into position straight ahead.</p>
            <p>Never make a sharp turn into the parking position. This leaves the nosewheel angled
                across the direction of roll you use in leaving. Furthermore, a buddy may snuggle up
                on each side of you, locking you in position just as securely as if they used a
                chain.</p>
            <p>The nosewheel position indicator warns you when the nosewheel is more than 15" from
                straight ahead. Release the brakes and allow the plane to roll forward. Correct the
                alignment of the nosewheel, and re-park. Set the parking brakes and prepare to stop
                the engines.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open bomb bay door.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Set engine at 1200 rpm.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Mixture control to "IDLE CUT-OFF."</cmd>
                <info><p>Throttle full "OPEN" as rpm starts to drop. This prevents a tendency of the
                        engines to backfire as the last of the fuel is running through the cylinder
                        heads.</p></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Ignition switches "OFF" when the props have stopped turning.</cmd>
                <info><note type="important">Don't be careless about this. An engine with a cylinder
                        loaded is like a stick of dynamite with a fuse attached. Just a little
                        carelessness will set either one off with a bang. A pilot climbing into his
                        seat may nudge the ignition switch and an unlucky mechanic may lose the top
                        of his head.</note></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Turn all switches "OFF."</cmd>
                <info><note>Whenever necessary, dilute the oil before the engines are stopped. (See
                        cold weather section.)</note></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>After the wheels have been chocked, release the parking brakes.</cmd>
                <info><p>Never keep the parking brakes set after you return to the line. The
                        multiple-disc brakes get extremely hot when you taxi for long periods, and
                        if sufficiently hot, they lock, necessitating removal of the wheels and
                        brakes, and extensive repairs.</p></info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Make a complete check of the plane to see that trim tabs are set on "0,"
                    switches and radios are ''OFF'' controls "LOCKED," etc. </cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq>It is only common courtesy to leave the plane clean and neat for the next crew. See
            that carburetor air scoop covers are on to exclude dust from the engines. Complete the
            necessary local forms, gas forms, squadron reports, combat crew training report etc.
            Talk to the crew chief and tell him of the plane's performance. Give him any ideas you
            have for improvements.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
