<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="practical_questions">
    <title>Practical Questions</title>
    <shortdesc>Determining whether you and your air crew know what to do to efficiently run the
        airplane.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="12. Dec. 2018"/>
            <!--keith.schengili-roberts-->
            <revised modified="31. Dec. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>practical questions</indexterm>
                <indexterm>airplane commander</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>These are some of the practical questions which you as airplane commander must be able to answer.</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Can all members of your crew fly at high altitudes without discomfort or physical
                handicap?</li>
            <li>Does any member of your crew get airsick? </li>
            <li>Can the copilot take over in emergency?</li>
            <li>Does the radio operator understand D.F. aids?</li>
            <li>Do the gunners know how to unload and stow their guns?</li>
            <li>Do the engineer and the copilot (and do you) know how to use the load adjuster and
                how to load the airplane properly?</li>
            <li>Do the engineer and copilot (and do you) use the control charts to check your power
                settings and the efficient performance of your airplane?</li>
            <li>Does your crew know emergency procedure and signals?</li>
            <li>Is each member of your crew properly equipped?</li>
            <li>What can you do to prevent or relieve anoxia, air sickness, and fatigue?</li>
            <li>Is your crew familiar with first-aid treatment?</li>
            <li>Can you improve the morale of your crew?</li>
        </ul>
    </conbody>
</concept>
