<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="procedure_in_event_of_complete_failure_of_hydraulic_system">
    <title>Procedure in Event of Complete Failure of Hydraulic System</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="3. Jan. 2019"/>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>In the event of complete failure of your landing gear hydraulic system, operate the
                emergency controls as follows:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <stepsection>
                <p><b>Operation</b></p>
            </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Establish effective interphone communication between the crew member operating
                    the mechanism and the pilot.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Return to the home base if possible. Report your trouble to the tower.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Climb to an altitude of at least 5000 feet above the surrounding terrain.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce the airspeed below 150 mph (120-130 mph recommended.)</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Place landing gear control handle in pilot's compartment
                        "<userinput>DOWN</userinput>."</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Swing screw jack in radio compartment to the operating position.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pull up-latch release and check to see that the main gear has released.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Operate the screw jack (clockwise) to lower the gear,</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Use normal landing gear check to see that the gear is down and locked.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Release the tension slightly on the screw jack after the gear is down and
                    locked.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note type="warning">Don't return this system to a stowed position until the
                        plane is safely on the ground, with the landing gear locked to prevent its
                        folding up.</note>
                    <p>You must stow this system before the wheels can again be operated hydraulic
                        ally.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <stepsection>
                <p><b>Nosewheel</b></p>
                <p>The lowering device for the nosewheel is in the navigator's compartment, on the
                    step into the pilot's compartment.</p>
                <p>To operate:</p>
            </stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pull nose gear release.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check to see that the gear has released.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Turn the nosewheel pawl "ON."</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Place crank on shaft, turn clockwise to lower.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check locked position normally after the gear is full down.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note type="warning">The nosewheel lowering cable operates every time the
                        nosewheel is raised or lowered. It is engaged by the pawl to lower the
                        wheels. If the pawl is accidently turned to "<userinput>ON</userinput>" the
                        hydraulic system will tear the nose- wheel cable out of the plane.</note>
                    <p>This pawl must be left "<userinput>ON</userinput>" after it is used until the
                        plane is on the ground and braced against mishap.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
