<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_y2q_fxg_fgb">
    <title>Single Engine Operation Procedure</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p/>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Airspeed&#8212; Maintain or get 140 mph by diving if necessary.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Directional control&#8212; Obtain and hold directional control by using rudder.
                    Slight aileron aids coordination but excessive use raises the stalling
                    speed.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Use the trim tabs to help you hold the plane if manual control is too
                    difficult. Make these checks:</cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Check your ignition switches.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Check your fuel cut-off valves.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Move mixture control to "FULL RICH." </cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Turn the booster pumps "ON." You can make these checks in far less time
                            than it takes to read these lines; they may save the engine, and they
                            prevent featheritis.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>

            <step>
                <cmd>Increase power to the limit allowed by airspeed and rudder control&#8212;
                    Advance both prop controls and both throttles. It is sometimes difficult to tell
                    which engine is out. As a precaution, apply power to both engines.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>A good method when you are not sure: If the plane wants to turn to the right,
                    the right engine is dead; to the left, the left engine is dead. If you are on
                    instruments, your bank-and- tum needle points to the dead engine,</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce drag. Throttle back. Decrease rpm. or feather the prop. Mixture "IDLE
                    CUT-OFF" gear and flaps up, generators on&#8212; Feather the propeller by
                    pushing the feathering button down. The prop will feather, and when it does the
                    button will return to normal position.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Close cowl flaps on dead engine.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce fire hazard&#8212; After the prop stops turning, cut off the fuel and
                    ignition on that engine. Set the Lux system to the dead engine, and be prepared
                    if a fire breaks out.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Trim&#8212; Trim the plane for hands-off flight. This may seem a complicated
                    procedure; how- ever, when you have practiced it a few times, when you know
                    exactly what you are going to do, the entire procedure requires less than 10
                    seconds.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
