<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="spins">
    <title>Spins</title>
    <shortdesc>No pilot should ever knowingly allow the airplane to get into a spin. If you
        accidentally get into a spin, however the recovery is normal.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="21. Dec. 2018"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>spins</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Cut power completely and use conventional control movement to recover. You need a lot of
            muscle to make positive rudder and elevator actions.</p>
        <p>In violent spins and stalls, airplanes with 30 degrees of rudder travel have a tendency
            to throw the rudder full into tail spin and the elevator control full back in the
            pilot's lap. You and your copilot may have to use your combined strength to affect a
            recovery.</p>
        <p>The airplane is clean aerodynamically and picks up tremendous speeds if left in a steep
            dive. Be careful in making the recovery to prevent structural damage to the
            airplane.</p>
        <p><b>The best advice possible is–stay out of spins.</b> If you do get into a spin and there
            is doubt that you can recover safely, don't stay with the airplane too long. It is bad
            enough to lose the airplane–<b>don't ride it down</b>.</p>
        <p>If you are still out of control when you reach 5000 feet–Get out!</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
