<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="starting_engines_in_cold_weather">
    <title>Starting Engines in Cold Weather</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>cold weather</indexterm>
                <indexterm>starting engines</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Make a normal start by following the procedure on the pilot's checklist. If you have
                trouble starting the engines, take the following supplementary measures:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pull the props through about 15 blades before engaging the starter. The engines
                    will need a lot of priming for a cold weather start. If possible use external
                    power for cold weather starting.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If the engine fails to start, check plugs for moisture. Make another attempt to
                    start the engine when the plugs are dry,</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Always make a normal start before using the oil dilution system. If, after the
                    engines are running, your oil pressure is too high or is fluctuating and drops
                    off when the rpm is increased, dilute the oil. (See dilution procedure under
                    After Landing.)</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note>Use this method only if time and extreme temperature conditions do not
                        permit normal engine warm-up.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Do not run the engines at more than 1200 rpm until the oil has reached a
                    temperature of 20°C.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If icing conditions exist, place carburetor air control handles in
                        "<userinput>ICING</userinput>" until the induction system is free of
                    ice.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
