<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_pjw_hzf_fgb">
    <title>Tactical Uses of the B-25</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <conbody>
        <p>The combat record of the Mitchell has being printed in the newspapers of all the world
            for every man to see. Little can be added to that story except the developments of the
            future.</p>
        <p>You and your buddies will write that story in the skies of the world.</p>
        <p>You have been taught to fly the Mitchell accurately and safely under all conditions. Now
            you must learn to use the B-25 as a weapon, for that is the ultimate purpose of military
            flying.</p>
        <p>All the skill and determination you can bring to this job will be none too much. How well
            you learn to punish the enemy and to protect yourself will in the final analysis
            determine whether you are a successful pilot.</p>
        <p>The B-25 has been used for every purpose that need has demanded. Bombing, strafing,
            torpedoing, and even the evacuation of wounded, are listed in her duty roster. Whatever
            the need, the B-25 was either ready or quickly converted to do the job.</p>
        <p>Her primary duties have been many:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Bombing, both low and medium altitude.</li>
            <li>Strafing, with cannon and machine gun.</li>
            <li>Smoke missions.</li>
            <li>Gunnery, both for defensive and offensive fire.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The following pages illustrate the duties and responsibilities which are yours when using
            the B-25 as a weapon. They are typical of the actual orders and instructions issued to
            B-25 crews in training for combat duty.</p>
        <section>
            <title>Preparing for Your Mission</title>
            <p>Before a mission is undertaken, the entire crew will be briefed. Upon completion of
                the mission the entire crew will again report to the S-2 officer for
                interrogation.</p>
            <p>As commander of your airplane, it is your duty to brief your crew before the flight,
                pointing out to each crew member the specific duties he is expected to perform.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Duties of the Airplane Commander</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Coordinates and supervises duties performed by crew members.</li>
                <li>Pilot and copilot will practice hooded instruments (on day navigational
                    missions), pilotage navigation, or radio navigation on all missions. Either the
                    pilot or copilot will navigate at all times. Contact radio range stations on all
                    navigation missions when possible.</li>
                <li>Directs bailout, crash landing, and ditching drills on the ground and in
                    flight.</li>
                <li>Determines that crew members are receiving the necessary training to make them
                    proficient in their assigned duty.</li>
                <li>Has a complete knowledge of the assigned mission, and the duties of each crew
                    member.</li>
                <li>Makes proper use of all pilot's checklists.</li>
                <li>Flies at all times in accordance with rules and regulations as outlined in AAF
                    Regulation #60-16, and per scheduled Operations Orders.</li>
                <li>Sends RON’s on X-Country Flights. Understands necessary security measures
                    regarding confidential equipment in the airplane.</li>
                <li>When remaining overnight away from the home station, determines that crew
                    members are properly housed and fed and are readily available in event takeoff
                    is advanced.</li>
                <li>Insures that each crew member is properly briefed on the mission to be
                    performed.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Copilot</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Is ready to assume the duties of pilot at any time during the flight and acts as
                    deputy airplane commander.</li>
                <li>Aids pilot in his duties and remembers that the time will come when he assumes
                    the responsibilities of airplane commander.</li>
                <li>Keeps constant check on engine instruments and controls, notifying pilot of any
                    discrepancy.</li>
                <li>Makes preliminary check of airplane and crew prior to flight.</li>
                <li>Aids pilot in accomplishing proper checklist.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Bombardier-Navigator</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Responsible for knowing exact position of the aircraft at all times.</li>
                <li>Becomes proficient in his primary duty as bombardier and navigator.</li>
                <li>Records weather report during mission.</li>
                <li>Acts as principal observer, recording all pertinent data for S-2.</li>
                <li>Keeps complete and accurate log of flight.</li>
                <li>Furnishes radio operator with position reports.</li>
                <li>Able to assume duties of fire control officer.</li>
                <li>Checks sights, racks, intervalometer, control panel, driftmeter, and other
                    allied equipment prior to takeoff as per bombardier-navigator's checklist.</li>
                <li>Familiar with rack malfunctions that may occur during a mission and understands
                    corrective action to be taken.</li>
                <li>Understands importance of keeping navigation instruments correctly
                    calibrated.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Radio Gunner</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Thoroughly understands all communications equipment in the assigned airplane.
                    Understands failures that are likely to occur and supplies the corrective
                    action.</li>
                <li>When outside local flying area the radio operator gunner sends position reports
                    to his home base.</li>
                <li>Contacts AACS stations when unable to contact group ground station.</li>
                <li>Records all broadcasts weather data and maintains complete log.</li>
                <li>Assists navigator by taking radio fixes.</li>
                <li>Furnishes pilot with courses from the D/F station.</li>
                <li>Checks location of headsets, and operation and condition of all communications
                    equipment as per radio operator's checklist prior to takeoff.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Engineer Gunner</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Before each flight, checks airplane for proper loading, stowage of life rafts
                    and emergency equipment, and visually inspects the airplane as per engineer's
                    checklist.</li>
                <li>Has thorough knowledge of the engines and airplane in general. The occasion will
                    arise when the airplane is away from its assigned ground crew and the engineer
                    must be able to perform necessary maintenance and make required
                    inspections.</li>
                <li>Ready to assume duties of copilot at any time.</li>
                <li>During flight will complete the engineer's log and practice fire control on all
                    missions. Engineer gunners will also practice turret operation in flight.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Armorer Gunner</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Before flight he is responsible that ammunition is properly loaded and that all
                    gun positions are in working order.</li>
                <li>On way to target he checks with other crew members to see that guns are properly
                    working (to be simulated during training).</li>
                <li>Acts as assistant observer, reporting via interphone to pilot any unusual
                    activities and all airplanes they see during flight while on cross-country.</li>
                <li>Preflights airplane as per armorer gunner's checklist.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Additional Information</title>
            <p>The clock system will be used in reporting position of other aircraft seen in
                flight.</p>
            <p>The pilot of an airplane on an individual flight or the leader of a formation flight
                will make it standard procedure to contact all radio ranges en route to give a
                position report, and in case of doubtful weather to receive a weather report
                especially at the field of intended landing.</p>
            <p>On cross-country flights, either the armorer-gunner, radio-gunner, or the
                engineer-gunner will be in the turret at all times.</p>
            <p>On low altitude missions, pilot will not fly below altitude specified as minimum for
                the particular mission being flown.</p>
            <p>On all low altitude missions, course will be corrected to avoid flying over towns,
                cities, and thickly inhabited rural areas.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
