<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="tips_on_single_engine_operation">
    <title>Tips on Single Engine Operation</title>
    <shortdesc>A list of handy tips on how to work with your engines in regular circumstances, and
        how to re-start a dead engine.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <critdates>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="3. Jan. 2019"/>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="4. Jan. 2019"/>
            <!--scott.hudson-->
            <revised modified="7. Jan. 2019"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>single engine</indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <ul>
            <li>Practice single engine operation with the propellers feathered and unfeathered.</li>
            <li>Keep the prop feathered for a maximum of 5 minutes in cold weather and 15 minutes in
                warm weather. If you exceed these time limits the engine cools too much. The oil
                drains into the bottom cylinders and makes starting difficult and dangerous.</li>
            <li>Warm engines gradually when recovering from single engine practice.</li>
            <li>Keep all experiments within safe bounds.</li>
            <li>Don't allow your airspeed to vary in turns.</li>
            <li>Don't blast the throttles to maintain airspeed in turns.</li>
            <li>Hold the nose up when rolling out of turns or you will lose too much altitude.</li>
            <li>Remember&#8212; When at high altitudes the <keyword keyref="designator"/> may lose
                some altitude, but when you reach denser air at lower altitudes it will hold
                altitude easily.</li>
            <li>When attempting to make a medium turn, establish the proper degree of bank.
                Otherwise the turn will be uncoordinated.</li>
            <li>Hold the airspeed for which you have trimmed. This will save you a lot of wear and
                tear mentally and physically. <b>The <keyword keyref="designator"/> flies easily on
                    one engine if it is properly trimmed.</b></li>
        </ul>
        <section id="sect_RestartDeadEngine">
            <title>Re-starting the dead engine</title>
            <ul>
                <li>Turn the ignition switches "<userinput>ON</userinput>."</li>
                <li>Turn the gasoline "<userinput>ON</userinput>."</li>
                <li>Prop control (bad engine) full "<userinput>DEC. RPM</userinput>." Mixture
                        "<userinput>FULL RICH</userinput>."</li>
                <li>Depress the feathering switch until the engine rpm is 800.</li>
                <li>Release the feathering switch and resume control with the engine controls.</li>
                <li>Move prop pitch and throttles forward slowly &#8212;not to exceed 1400 rpm and
                    15" Hg. until the cylinder-head temperature starts to increase.</li>
                <li>Warm the engine as you would on the ground and apply cruising power after
                    cylinder-head temperature is normal.</li>
                <li>Oil shutters and cowl flaps as desired.</li>
                <li>Retrim.</li>
            </ul>
            <note type="warning">If no feathering action occurs within 90 seconds, release
                feathering button to avoid burning out feathering motor.</note>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
