<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_ovn_rzj_fgb">
    <title>Wing Flap Emergency Lowering System</title>
    <shortdesc>In the event of complete failure of the main hydraulic system, an emergency
        mechanical flap lowering mechanism is available.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>It is important to remember to use the emergency mechanism only when the hydraulic
                system failure is complete, as the two systems oppose each other. Use of the
                emergency system while hydraulic pressure is still available will seriously damage
                the mechanical system.</p>
            <p>The emergency mechanism is in the radio compartment. Be sure the interphone
                communication between the crew member operating the mechanism and the pilot is 100%
                effective.</p>
            <p>Before entering the traffic pattern it is advisable to lower partial flaps. This
                enables you to get desired amount of flaps earlier on the final approach.</p>
            <p>Operation:</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Reduce airspeed below 150 mph.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Move pilot's flap control "DOWN."</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Remove hand crank from stowage position on forward wall of radio compartment
                    and engage it with the shaft.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Rotate crank clockwise until you obtain the desired amount of flaps -14 turns
                    will give you half flaps; 27 turns, full flaps.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>To lock flaps in position, remove the crank.</cmd>
                <info><note>If go-around is necessary, turn crank counterclockwise to full stop
                        position. (This operation does not raise the flaps, but releases the
                        pressure on them and the force of the slipstream raises them.)</note><note
                        type="warning">Before operating the flaps hydraulically again, be sure that
                        your mechanical system is fully disengaged. To disengage, rotate crank
                        counter-clockwise until checked. Remove crank and return to its stowage
                        position.</note></info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
