
Carburetor Air Heat
===================

 {.body .conbody}
The carburetor air heater on the [B-25]{.keyword} is a 2-position gate
in the air induction system.

Manual controls directly connect this gate to the position handles in
the pilot\'s cockpit. It cannot be set in an intermediate position and
it is spring loaded to return to \"NORMAL\" if the controls are shot
away.

Keep controls at \"NORMAL\" setting unless carburetor icing conditions
are suspected, as a loss of horsepower results with the controls in
\"ICING\" This effect increases as power is increased.

Whenever you observe a gradual loss of manifold pressure without a
change in throttles or attitude, or the engine runs rough without
apparent cause move the control to \"ICING.\"

In this position the air scoop entrance is closed off, and ice free and
heated air enters the carburetor from behind the cylinders.

Operation in \"ICING\" will not harm the engines. Even in warm weather
the carburetor air temperature rise is small. The engines lose
efficiency, however, since fuel vaporization is impeded.

Takeoffs are made with the controls at \"NORMAL\" to obtain maximum
power and prevent detonation at high power settings.

Resistance-type carburetor air thermometers are installed in the intake
air stream on each carburetor. They are electrically connected to a dual
indicator on the right side of the instrument panel.

Keep the air inlet temperature above 15째C during any conditions where
you suspect carburetor ice.

A temperature between 15째C and 30째C is desirable. If, with the
carburetor air control at \"ICING\" a temperature of 15째C cannot be
maintained, move the control to \"NORMAL\" to provide air to the
carburetor at so low a temperature that icing will not occur. If, with
the carburetor air control at \"ICING,\" ice that is already formed is
not eliminated, use the alcohol anti-icing system (if installed).




**Parent topic:** [Equipment and
Instruments](../topics/equipment_and_instruments.md "This section provides a survey of the key systems, equipment and instrumentation of the B-25 airplane.")



