
Hydraulic System
================

 {.body .conbody}
The hydraulic system provides quick and easy operation of the following
equipment on the [B-25]{.keyword}.

1.  Tricycle Landing Gear
2.  Brakes
3.  Wing Flaps
4.  Cowl Flaps
5.  Bomb Bay Doors
6.  Automatic Pilot
7.  Gun Chargers

![Hydraulic
system](../images/hydraulic_system.png){#hydraulic_system__image_w5x_qjm_cgb
.image}

The reservoir which contains the hydraulic fluid has a capacity of 5.9
gallons. A standpipe in the reservoir retains a reserve of 2.33 gallons
for the emergency hand pump.

This reservoir, made of aluminum alloy, has a sight gage which shows the
level of the fluid. The gage has only 2 markings--- \"[FULL]{.keyword
.option}\" and \"[REFILL]{.keyword .option}.\" There is a removable
screen in the filler neck which must be cleaned whenever the reservoir
is re-serviced.

Two lines lead from the reservoir to a foam tank, built into the system
to allow for expansion of the fluid caused by temperature changes. A
vent line maintains constant atmospheric pressure in the system,
allowing excess fluid or pressure bubbles to escape.

There is an engine-driven, gear-type, positive displacement pump in the
accessory section below the right magneto of each engine. These pumps
supply fluid pressure to the accumulators. They are connected in
parallel. If one pump fails, the other will supply sufficient pressure
to the system.

An emergency double-action, single-impulse hand pump, on the floor
between pilot\'s and copilot\'s seats, supplies pressure to the system
if both engine-driven pumps fail.

Two accumulators, located in the forward right comer of the navigator\'s
compartment, store fluid under air pressure for the brakes and main
hydraulic system. The accumulators also provide an air cushion in the
system to absorb sudden changes in fluid flow.

These accumulators consist of a tubular steel housing into which is
fitted a neoprene rubber boot. The boot is filled with air to a pressure
of 400 lb. sq. in. The steel housing contains hydraulic fluid. When the
fluid pressure exceeds 400 lb. sq. in. it compresses the air in the
boot.

Fluid is pumped into the accumulators until the pressure is 1050 lb. sq.
in. in the main system and 1150 lb. sq. in. in the brake system,
sufficient for normal operation.

In late-series aircraft, pistons replace the rubber boots in the
accumulators. The action is unchanged, however.

There are actuating cylinders at all points of the equipment where
hydraulic pressure is converted into mechanical action.

This does not apply to the brakes, where toe pressure on the rudder
pedals is converted into hydraulic pressure, which in turn supplies
braking action through the power brake valve.

There is an emergency air brake system for use if the hydraulic brake
system fails.




**Parent topic:** [Equipment and
Instruments](../topics/equipment_and_instruments.md "This section provides a survey of the key systems, equipment and instrumentation of the B-25 airplane.")



