
Models and Changes
==================

 {.body .conbody}
Combat problems in several theaters of war found the A, B, C, and D
models of the [B-25]{.keyword} unsuited for certain tactical operations.
A series of modifications were necessary to overcome these problems.

The [B-25]{.keyword} was originally designed for medium-altitude
bombing, but combat theaters found it maneuverable and fast, making it
suitable for low-altitude bombing and strafing missions. Additional
firepower, armor plating, and re-arrangement of equipment were necessary
to equip the [B-25]{.keyword} for this type mission.

The [B-25]{.keyword}G, basically a modified C or D, has a 75-mm. cannon
and additional forward-firing .50-cal. guns. The [B-25]{.keyword}G
carries no bombardier; therefore the pilot operates bombing mechanisms
and all forward-firing guns. Later models of the [B-25]{.keyword}G have
additional firepower. Waist guns and a tail stinger, with more armor
plating for the crew, make the [B-25]{.keyword}G a 4-fisted menace to
enemy shipping and ground installation.

The [B-25]{.keyword}H, which followed the [B-25]{.keyword}G, underwent
several changes to make it an even more formidable weapon. With the
75-mm. cannon still part of the equipment, four .50-cal. forward-firing
guns were installed in the nose, and four .50-cal. blister guns, two on
each side of the fuselage, were added.

With no bombardier aboard, the pilot does all the bombing and fires all
forward-firing guns. The upper turret has been moved from the rear of
the plane to the navigator\'s compartment, giving it a more effective
arc of fire. Two .50-cal. waist guns, one on each side of the fuselage
just aft of the bomb bay, are operated by the radio gunner. A tail
turret provides two more .50-cal. guns. The [B-25]{.keyword}H, primarily
used for low-altitude attack, has fourteen .50-cal. machine guns and one
75-mm. cannon in addition to its complete bombardment equipment.

The [B-25]{.keyword}J is designed to operate as a medium altitude bomber
and at the same time to provide sufficient firepower for low-altitude
strafing missions. With no cannon aboard, the nose is reconverted into a
bombardier\'s compartment with the addition of two forward-firing
.50-cal. guns. One fixed .50-cal. gun and one flexible .50-cal. gun in
the bombardier\'s compartment-plus the four forward-firing blister guns
give the pilot highly effective firepower. The rest of the firepower is
identical with that of the [B-25]{.keyword}H. One excellent feature of
the [B-25]{.keyword}J is the dual bombing controls, giving the pilot or
the bombardier individual control of all bombing equipment. With twelve
.50-cal. guns, it is one of the deadliest medium bombers in operation.




**Parent topic:** [Equipment and
Instruments](../topics/equipment_and_instruments.md "This section provides a survey of the key systems, equipment and instrumentation of the B-25 airplane.")



